In this section we'll be discussing developing team estimates.
In order to effectively develop a team estimate,
your team must first understand and embrace everything we learned to this point.
As a leader, you must also learn how to ask for estimates,
probe deeper for more refinement, and begin building a WBS,
Work Breakdown Structure-based estimate.
Let's see how this is done.
Now let's see how you can facilitate developing team estimates.
The entire team understands the standard process for estimation.
The team is fully trained, on board, and engaged.
You always expect estimates in ideal time from team members.
You itemize the tasks and discuss as a team to get a
consensus of the ideal estimates.
Begin your work breakdown structure,
and we will see an example in the next few slides.
You'll want to be able to add, modify,
or remove tasks that are required to accomplish project goals.
Then adjust those estimates through open and honest discussions.
And always embrace and facilitate collaboration.
You want to collaborate as a team.
Now when should you iterate estimates?
Here's a scenario.
You ask a team member, how long will that task take?
They think about it, 24 ideal hours.
That's because they're well trained, they know to use ideal hours.
Now based on what you need, the 24 hours may be a good answer and off you go.
No more estimating needed, you have your answer.
But how much accuracy might you need?
Or might you be able to tolerate if it's larger?
For example, what if the estimate was 500 hours?
Now you may need to iterate again.
In fact, you should iterate again.
That's a pretty large number.
And here's a really good rule of thumb.
Keep iterating until the size of estimate is reasonable,
understandable, and actionable.
So, in the 500 hour example,
do I really understand what would be done within that 500 hours?
Could I actually delegate that task and someone could take action on it?
Maybe, but I think in my experience likely not.
So you iterate again and maybe the 500 hours breaks down to maybe
eight or nine tasks with smaller number of hours. That's what I would recommend.